Probably this book deserves two or three stars, as an engaging (chatty) survey of the profound changes in technology we have been and are experiencing. I give it one star, however, as my protest against the rave reviews from so many uncritical readers. In a sense, Friedman's approach is inductive: present lots and lots of cases - and cite countless high-flying technies and "big thinkers" - stir in heavy doses of optimism (or is it fatalism camouflaged as optimism?), and call it a book. Quite simply, anecdotes plas optimism do not yield a solid analysis of the broader society.

Friedman has a perfect right to be optimistic. But as a critical reader (and social scientist) I reserve my right to say that he does not make the case for where we are heading and that it will be glorious. Nor are techies abd their fans the best judges of what they are doing to the broader society.
Friedman offers a compelling, well-researched paradigm for understanding how the US arrived at its current level of dysfunctional politics. His hypothesis, restated throughout the book is that the US, as well as the rest of the planet, is being subjected to three relentless, ineluctable forces: the exponential development of technology, the forces of globalization and concomitant interdependence, and severe climate change, all of which have altered forever the complacent stability to which we had become accustomed. He argues further that the pace of change (speed) as well as the rate of change (exponential) are exceeding in many cases, the capacity of individuals and societies to adapt to change, while politicians--glued to their own narrow ideologies and even narrower political bases--provide only simplistic, quixotic and ultimately futile responses.

Though I could have done without the plethora of folksy interjections, as a whole the argument made is compelling, well documented and (for me) fairly frightening. In the closing chapters of the book, Friedman offers several common sense, pragmatic solutions and manages to convey a sense of optimism that eventually, the world will be capable of adapting in a manner that improves global civilization. Given the facts and strong arguments made in preceding chapters however, the optimism seems unfounded;; particularly given the lack of political will for the heterodox approach that the author justifiably feels that circumstances require.
